Up to this point we learned the if statement the if else statement and the else if statement and if
you remember our section outline.
Well we have mentioned these two for JavaScript conditionals.
So we're gonna tackle those today.
As you can see we have two more to get through.
But don't be scared.
These are not going to introduce anything new.
They're just different ways of doing control flow but they won't do anything that is simple if else
statement can't do.
However there are cases where it will be much easier to do these two than if we do something with the
if else statement.
So let's check them out.
The first one we're going to talk about is the ternary operator.
It looks something like this condition.
The question mark
expression one or expression
and that is the syntax it says.
Is this true or false.
If it's true then provide this value.
If it's false provide this value.
Let me show you an example of this.
We'll have a function called is user valid that accepts a boolean and we'll just return the volume value
now within.
Here we can say variable answer equals is user valid and we'll just say true for now.
Question mark.
So if that's true I'll say you may enter
otherwise I'll say access denied.
Let me make that this a little bit smaller so you can see.
So again all we're saying is if this is true then do this expression if this is false do this expression
self is just copy this into the console and see what happens if Iran answer whoops I spelled that wrong
answer I get you may enter because user is valid this true.
Now if I change this to say false WELL IN THAT CASE I'LL GET ACCESS DENIED but still a little bit more
of a complicated answer we can say variable automated answer and we can say and I'll do this on a new
line just so you can see your account number is is user valid and we'll just say something like false
for now so because we have these brackets we're going to have an expression inside of here that we can
evaluate so we can say is user valid if the user is valid we'll say 1 2 3 4 if not we'll say not available
if we copy and paste this here into our console and we can see a better we see if user is valid we want
to say one two three four if it's not then not available.
So if I run this and now I look at automated answer I get your account number is not available well
because is user valid is false but if I do true well in that case your account number is 1 2 3 4.
Now you might notice that this is actually not that different from if you did function condition was
called condition and we'll say
is user valid return you may enter
and you did.
Else
return access denied this function over here.
Condition.
If I say variable answer to equals condition
we'll see what happens.
Copy these two run them and now if I look at answer I get you may enter if I get an answer to I get
you may enter.
Now it's the exact same thing other than well bit of misspelling on my part.
But you see that one way is a lot nicer it's just nice simple one line ternary operator is really really
good for these if else where there is a check for a condition and there's two possible expressions that
come out of it all right.
Let's learn the next one which is the switch statement.
There's the fun one so a switch statement looks something like this and we can build a simple game right
now to demonstrate how it works.
I can say function move command and we'll say it accepts parameter direction within this function.
I'll say variable what happens and we'll say switch.
Notice that it's a keyword.
So it's now highlight interim bread and I'll say direction the switch statement is going to accept direction
it's going to check direction and we think here we'll say.
Case forward which means check direction if direction equals forward then what happens equals two.
You encounter a monster
break.
I'll explain why break does.
Right after I finish up the rest of the case statement so case segments as you can see are really good
because I can just copy and paste and now I can say for here we'll say back and if direction is back
we'll say you arrived home if the direction is right.
In that case we'll say you found a river and if the direction is left we'll say you run into a troll
and then finally we'll say default
what happens equals to please enter a valid direction
and we'll end it with a return.
What happens.
All right that was a whole lot of code.
Let's run this command first and then we'll explain exactly what is happening.
Copy the code copy into the console.
And now we have the move comment.
And if you remember the last video move.
Command now exists in the root scope which is window so within here.
Let's just say.
Forward.
Now if I run this I get you encountered a monster
back.
You arrived home.
If I go right you found a river.
If I go left you run into a bull.
And if I write gibberish
I get Please enter a valid direction.
That's what switch statements are really good for when you have a lot of conditions.
Instead of using an if else if.
Else if else if.
Else if else statement you can use a switch statement and you can see it reads nicely.
Essentially what it's saying is create variable.
What happens then switch.
I want you to check whatever the condition is whatever the variable is in this case it's the direction
and in case the direction equals forward.
Do this in case direction is back.
Do this.
If it's right do this.
If it's left do this.
And it says default is if none of these conditions work.
And remember the program goes line by line.
So checks forward then checks back and it checks right.
And it checks left and if nothing of those match then it says you can just default to please enter a
valid direction and then we return what happened.
So that while so that the function returns something for us.
Now finally what is the break.
The brake simply says if Casey's forward then the sign you encountered a monster too.
What happens variable and then brake brake is just saying break out of the switch statement.
So instead of the program then checking to see if Casey's back Casey's right Casey's left or default.
If we say brake.
The program stops here and then goes straight out of the switch statement to return.
What happens.
So if I actually do brake before what happens you encountered a monster and I copy this
and let's rerun the function we'll say move command is forward notice what happens now I get undefined
because we broke the program enter saying Oh yeah.
He typed in forward.
But before we're able to assign something to the variable I say break I exit out of the switch statement
and I return what happens which it's only been declared but it's on a sign.
So I just return undefined.
All right there you have it your two other conditionals and you've covered all of them in JavaScript.
Now each one is good for its own individual case but they're all very useful.
I'll see in the next one but my.